.TH IMAGEFACTORY 1 "" "Version 2.0 - July 27, 2012" "User Manual"
.PP
\f[B]NAME\f[]
.RS
.PP
imagefactory - create virtual machine images for use on a variety of
clouds
.RE
.PP
\f[B]SYNOPSIS\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ [-h]\ [-v]\ [--verbose]\ [--debug]\ [--config\ CONFIG]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [--imgdir\ IMGDIR]\ [--timeout\ TIMEOUT]\ [--tmpdir\ TMPDIR]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [--plugins\ PLUGINS]\ [--ec2-32bit-util\ EC2_32BIT_UTIL]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [--ec2-64bit-util\ EC2_64BIT_UTIL]

\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ {base_image,target_image,provider_image,images,delete,plugins}
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ...
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]DESCRIPTION\f[]
.RS
.PP
\f[B]imagefactory\f[] is the command line interface to the Image Factory
framework, allowing one to create, push, inspect, and delete images
without the REST service.
.RE
.RS
.PP
Image Factory builds virtual machine images using a template document,
which is an abstract description of the system to be built.
See the TDL schema
documentation (http://aeolusproject.github.com/imagefactory/tdl/) for a
full description of what can be specified in a template.
Built images can then be pushed to cloud providers such as Amazon EC2 or
VMware vSphere where they can be launched as instances.
.RE
.RS
.PP
Command line options are described further down in this document.
For more configuration options, see the Image Factory
configuration (https://github.com/aeolusproject/imagefactory/blob/master/Documentation/imagefactory_conf.md)
documentation.
.RE
.PP
\f[B]OPTIONS\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
-h,\ --help\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
-v,\ --version\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ show\ version\ number\ and\ exit
--verbose\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Set\ verbose\ logging.
--debug\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Set\ really\ verbose\ logging\ for\ debugging.
--config\ CONFIG\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Configuration\ file\ to\ use.\ (default:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /etc/imagefactory/imagefactory.conf)
--imgdir\ IMGDIR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Build\ image\ files\ in\ location\ specified.\ (default:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /tmp)
--timeout\ TIMEOUT\ \ \ \ \ Set\ the\ timeout\ period\ for\ image\ building\ in\ seconds.
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (default:\ 3600)
--tmpdir\ TMPDIR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Use\ the\ specified\ location\ for\ temporary\ files.
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ (default:\ /tmp)
--plugins\ PLUGINS\ \ \ \ \ Plugin\ directory.\ (default:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /etc/imagefactory/plugins.d)

EC2\ settings:
\ \ \ \ --ec2-32bit-util\ EC2_32BIT_UTIL
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Instance\ type\ to\ use\ when\ launching\ a\ 32\ bit\ utility
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ instance
\ \ \ \ --ec2-64bit-util\ EC2_64BIT_UTIL
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Instance\ type\ to\ use\ when\ launching\ a\ 64\ bit\ utility
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ instance

commands:
\ \ \ \ {base_image,target_image,provider_image,images,delete,plugins}
\ \ \ \ \ \ base_image\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Build\ a\ generic\ image.
\ \ \ \ \ \ target_image\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Customize\ an\ image\ for\ a\ given\ cloud.
\ \ \ \ \ \ provider_image\ \ \ \ \ \ Push\ an\ image\ to\ a\ cloud\ provider.
\ \ \ \ \ \ images\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ List\ images\ of\ a\ given\ type\ or\ get\ details\ of\ an
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ image.
\ \ \ \ \ \ delete\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Delete\ an\ image.
\ \ \ \ \ \ plugins\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ List\ active\ plugins\ or\ get\ details\ of\ a\ specific
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ plugin.
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]COMMANDS\f[]
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]base_image\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ base_image\ [-h]\ [--paramaters\ PARAMATERS]\ template

positional\ arguments:
\ \ template\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ A\ file\ containing\ the\ TDL\ for\ this\ image.

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\ \ --paramaters\ PARAMATERS
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]target_image\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ target_image\ [-h]\ (--id\ ID\ |\ --template\ TEMPLATE)
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [--parameters\ PARAMETERS]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ target

positional\ arguments:
\ \ target\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ The\ name\ of\ the\ target\ cloud\ for\ which\ to\ customize
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ the\ image.

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\ \ --id\ ID\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ The\ uuid\ of\ the\ BaseImage\ to\ customize.
\ \ --template\ TEMPLATE\ \ \ A\ file\ containing\ the\ TDL\ for\ this\ image.
\ \ --parameters\ PARAMETERS
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]provider_image\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ provider_image\ [-h]\ (--id\ ID\ |\ --template\ TEMPLATE)
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [--parameters\ PARAMETERS]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ provider\ credentials

positional\ arguments:
\ \ provider\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ A\ file\ containing\ the\ provider\ description.
\ \ credentials\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ A\ file\ containing\ the\ provider\ credentials

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\ \ --id\ ID\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ The\ uuid\ of\ the\ TargetImage\ to\ push.
\ \ --template\ TEMPLATE\ \ \ A\ file\ containing\ the\ TDL\ for\ this\ image.
\ \ --parameters\ PARAMETERS
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]images\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ images\ [-h]\ fetch_spec

positional\ arguments:
\ \ fetch_spec\ \ JSON\ formatted\ string\ of\ key/value\ pairs

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]delete\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ delete\ [-h]\ id

positional\ arguments:
\ \ id\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ UUID\ of\ the\ image\ to\ delete

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]\f[I]plugins\f[]\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
usage:\ imagefactory\ plugins\ [-h]\ [--id\ ID]

optional\ arguments:
\ \ -h,\ --help\ \ show\ this\ help\ message\ and\ exit
\ \ --id\ ID
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]EXAMPLES\f[]
.RS
.PP
Create a base image and customize it for a given target:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ target_image\ EC2Cloud\ --template\ ~/fedora16_64.tdl
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
Push an image to a cloud provider:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ provider_image\ ~/rhevm.json\ ~/credentials.xml\ --id\ "dd083ab5-65d9-4f3b-b118-5a5892ca6316"
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
Get the details of an image:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ images\ \[aq]{"identifier":\ "b91586df-761d-40a9-8423-5392f2a1143f"}\[aq]
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
List images of a specific type:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ images\ \[aq]{"type":\ "BaseImage"}\[aq]
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
Delete an image:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ delete\ "c09f3926-59ac-4e83-a7a8-d816b623f3e2"
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
List the active plugins:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ plugins
\f[]
.fi
.RS
.PP
View a specific plugin:
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
imagefactory\ plugins\ --id\ RHEVM
\f[]
.fi
