.TH IMAGEFACTORY.CONF 5 "" "Version 1.0 - February 10, 2012"
.PP
Image Factory looks for a configuration file at
\f[C]/etc/imagefactory/imagefactory.conf\f[] by default.
The configuration file uses JSON for the format.
This document describes the configuration options for Image Factory
below.
.SS General options
.PP
Options setting the overall behavior of Image Factory.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]debug\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Turns on verbose debugging messages in the log
file.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] False
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]imgdir\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Filesystem location in which to build images.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] /tmp
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]max_concurrent_local_sessions\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] The maximum number of concurrent local builds to
allow.
A local build starts a KVM guest to perform a JEOS install, consuming
disk space and memory on the host.
Once the number of concurrent builds is reached, any other builds will
entera queue and continue as previous builds complete.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] 2
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]timeout\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Sets the timeout period for image building in
seconds.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] 3600
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]tmpdir\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Filesystem location to use for temporary files.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] /tmp
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]jeos_imgdir\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Path to JeOS images
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[]"/etc/imagefactory/jeos_images/"
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]test_jeos_imgdir\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[]Path to JeOS images when testing, i.e. 'make unittests'. Allows successful test run without installation.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] "conf/"
.RE
.SS REST API options
.PP
Options for enabling the REST API and configuring how it is accessed.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]rest\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Enable the REST API
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] False
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]port\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Network port to listen on for REST API
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] 8075
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]address\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Network address to listen on for REST API
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] 0.0.0.0
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ssl_pem\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Path to ssl certificate.
If no certificate is specified, a self signed certificate will be
generated when imagefactory starts.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] None
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]no_ssl\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Turn off SSL access to REST API.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] False
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]no_oauth\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Turn off OAuth authentication for REST API.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] False
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]clients\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Dictionary of client keys and shared secrets
assigned to clients authenticating with OAuth.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] None
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Example:\f[]
\f[C]"clients":\ {"client1":\ "secret1",\ "client2":\ "secret2"}\f[]
.RE
.SS Amazon EC2 options
.PP
Options specific to Amazon EC2.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ec2_build_style\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] How images should be built for EC2.
As the name implies, an upload build will install an OS in a VM locally
to be customized and prepared for upload to EC2.
A snapshot build will copy an existing AMI to be customized.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] snapshot
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Values:\f[] snapshot, upload
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ec2_ami_type\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] The EC2 storage type to use for AMIs.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] s3
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Values:\f[] s3, ebs
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ec2-32bit-util\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Instance type to use when launching a 32 bit
utility instance.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] m1.small
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]ec2-64bit-util\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Instance type to use when launching a 64 bit
utility instance.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] m1.large
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]max_concurrent_ec2_sessions\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] The maximum number of concurrent EC2 snapshot
builds to allow.
Once the number of concurrent builds is reached, any other builds will
entera queue and continue as previous builds complete.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] 2
.RE
.SS RHEVM options
.PP
Options specific to Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]rhevm_image_format\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] The format to use for RHEVM images.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] kvm
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Values:\f[] qcow2
.RE
.SS Image Warehouse options
.PP
Settings for using the Aeolus Image Warehouse (iwhd) component.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]warehouse\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] URL of the warehouse location to store images.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] \f[C]http://localhost:9090/\f[]
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]warehouse_key\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] OAuth key to use for iwhd.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] None
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]warehouse_secret\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] OAuth shared secret to use for iwhd.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] None
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]image_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in images.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] images
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]build_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in builds.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] builds
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]target_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in for target
images.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] target_images
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]template_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in for templates.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] templates
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]icicle_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in for icicles.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] icicles
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]provider_bucket\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Description:\f[] Name of warehouse bucket to look in for provider
image instances.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Default:\f[] provider_images
.RE
